[AUDIO LOGO]
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
George Noory with you and we've
got a great guest for you.
Erika Gabriel is a professional
spiritual medium, a teacher.
She has more than 15 years
of experience helping others
find purpose, direction,
and the strength
to overcome life's challenges
by connecting to the other side.
Erika, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>ERIKA GABRIEL: Thank
you so much for having me.
I'm so happy to
be with you today.
>>NOORY: How did
you become a medium?
>>GABRIEL: Well,
I started actually
when I was really
young, noticing
all the kind of vibrations
that we couldn't see.
So it was almost like, if
you close your eyes right now
and someone walked
into the room,
you would feel them even
though you weren't seeing them.
And as a child, I kind of
felt that all the time,
that there was so much
happening that we couldn't see.
So I moved into a new
house with my family
when was, I think
seven or eight,
and I started to feel the energy
and essence of a little boy
around this new
house and was afraid,
terrified, told my
parents, and they later
found out that a little boy
had died on that property.
So that was kind
of my introduction
to the spiritual world to
being a medium towards--
to feeling other energy
and really feeling things
that weren't there, or
weren't visible to the eye.
>>NOORY: Do you see dead people?
>>GABRIEL: In general,
I feel dead people.
"Dead" I say, and I feel
and I sense people almost
like I'm watching a
movie behind the person
that I'm reading for.
So it's not like someone
walks into the room
and they're sitting next to us.
It's more like I
can see a projection
of a movie behind the
person that I'm reading for,
and that's how I see their
loved ones in spirit.
>>NOORY: When did you decide
to do this as a career?
>>GABRIEL: Well, feeling this
incredible energy around me
all the time was really scary.
So I knew I had to figure
out how to make it not scary
and find out what was
actually happening.
So I was kind of on a wild
goose chase for a long time,
deeply, deeply interested
in spirituality,
and learning about
God and about spirit.
And then finally, when I
was kind of in my late 20s,
I went to a medium
and she said, oh, you
know you're a medium
right and you're
going to help thousands
and thousands of people
from all over the world?
And I went, oh, no
but yes but thanks.
It kind of pulled it together.
And then--
>>NOORY: Bingo.
>>GABRIEL: Bingo.
It was like a bow
that was tightening
on a already existing
kind of present, right?
It was like, it
was already there
but she really
tightened that bow.
And then within two weeks, I
had people knocking on my door.
I lived in a bungalow off
Melrose in Los Angeles.
>>NOORY: Oh, did you?
>>GABRIEL: I did, and people
were just like knocking.
And I was reading for
people within two weeks.
>>NOORY: And you love it.
>>GABRIEL: I love it.
I love being able to bring
other ideas to people
to help them and serve them
and help them in their life.
>>NOORY: Do the spirits come
to you or do you go to them?
>>GABRIEL: So that is
such an awesome question.
So before I really understood
what mediumship was,
they were coming to me.
And it was an extremely
uncomfortable experience.
But now, it's not
that I come to them,
but I open the door
to them in a sense.
I allow them to come through
after I have permission
from the person that
I'm reading for.
So I use visualizations
when I read.
I have an on switch, an
off switch, an open door,
a closed door.
So I really have focused
specific boundaries
so that I feel comfortable
and also the people
that I'm reading for feel
comfortable, that they
know they're safe with me.
>>NOORY: Do they walk
into you, these spirits?
>>GABRIEL: Into-- like
bump into me physically?
>>NOORY: Yeah,
like, you remember
Whoopi Goldberg in "Ghost?"
>>GABRIEL: Totally.
>>NOORY: They would
literally step into her body.
>>GABRIEL: Yes.
Well, that was like
possession kind of, right?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GABRIEL: So no, I
don't get possessed.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: They're
called walk-ins.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, no.
Thank goodness.
No, I don't have
walk-ins, but I do
have walk bys where I'm
kind of like in a room
and I'm sensing a lot of energy.
And I always say, guys,
I'm off right now.
Meet me in my office.
Schedule an appointment.
I'm off.
I have--
>>NOORY: Do they listen to you?
>>GABRIEL: Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I'm pretty strong
when I want to be.
So I really work with
controlling boundaries.
But I have kids and
I have a husband
and I want to be
able to focus on them
when it's time to focus on them.
And when I'm doing readings
or working with spirit,
I really like to do
that in my office
and it's scheduled
in my calendar.
So I think there's
an amazing power
in being able to work with
spirit when and how you choose.
>>NOORY: Give me an example
of how you would work.
>>GABRIEL: So how I work.
So now, I work a lot on Zoom.
But the way that
I would work say,
if I were doing a reading
for you is number one,
I'd want to make
sure you were here.
No one forced you to
get a reading, right?
You really wanted a reading.
You wanted to connect.
And I would kind of seal us
and surround us in a bubble.
I like to think of a big
beautiful bubble wand
coming around us.
Sealing us in a protected space,
and also sealing our intention.
Our intention is
to work with high,
high vibration, spirit guides,
loved ones who've crossed over,
angels, right?
So I seal us in that
intention, and then go in
and we kind of do a meditation.
And in my mind, I'm
opening the door
and I'm turning on the light and
I'm tuning in to your station.
So the idea when
I do readings is,
I'm not creating anything
or yanking anything
or doing anything at you.
But in fact, I'm just tuning in
to almost like a radio station
that's already with you.
So I think of the radio as
something that's always on.
You just tune into it or tune
out of it, turn out of it.
So when I work with spirits--
>>NOORY: Unless it's my show,
which you never tune out of,
right?
>>GABRIEL: Ever.
I have a special
TV that's always
playing with your show on it.
>>NOORY: Good.
>>GABRIEL: But yeah, it's a
tune in and it's a tune out.
But everyone is already
connected to spirit
before they come to
me for a reading.
So I'm not carrying
everyone's loved ones with me.
They are.
And so when I--
>>NOORY: Are you particularly
religious, Erika?
>>GABRIEL: So I'm not
religious, but I'm very
drawn towards religions.
I love all religions.
I think they're beautiful
in so many different ways.
>>NOORY: Are you spiritual?
>>GABRIEL: Deeply spiritual.
Deeply, deeply spiritual.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: What do these
spirits want with you?
>>GABRIEL: Nothing.
They really don't.
They don't want
anything with me.
They are giving me an oppor--
I have an opportunity to work
with them should I so choose.
But I don't have anyone that's
banging on my door like go
and tell this person that--
it is a conscious opening
and closing for me
to work with spirit.
>>NOORY: Do they give you
information about things,
events, the future?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so in terms
of events and the future,
that is if I'm reading for
someone in a future event,
they must know that
would help them so much
and would help them in their
life that will come through.
But that's why I don't call
myself a psychic medium.
I call myself a spiritual medium
because the psychic component
is something I cannot guarantee.
I only can take what
spirit gives me,
and then I deliver that in
the best way I possibly can.
So I don't always know if a
psychic prediction is going
to come through in a reading.
>>NOORY: How do you know
you're not being tricked
by one of these spirits?
>>GABRIEL: Oh, yeah, I
understand what you're saying.
So after working with
spirit and reading
for thousands of people--
>>NOORY: Something devious.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, I have so--
my beautiful gift is this
incredible gift of sensitivity,
and I know when
something doesn't
feel right very quickly.
And that happened
earlier on as a medium,
but it does not
happen to me now.
And earlier on, that
did happen actually.
>>NOORY: I bet you're
intuitive that way
with people in real life.
>>GABRIEL: Absolutely.
Yeah, I'm very oversensitive,
which is a plus and a minus.
>>NOORY: Since you've
been doing this 15 years,
what's next for you?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so as I'm
moving forward in mediumship,
which I love to do and
love helping people,
my guides have told me, as I've
spent all these years focusing
on spirit and the dead
as we said earlier,
now, it's really, really time to
work with spirit and my guides
to focus on the living and
to help people that are here
in the earth element right now.
>>NOORY: Somebody
will come to you,
a human, what do they want?
What do they ask you for?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah,
so if they're not
looking to connect with a loved
one, which is a lot of time,
but if they're not looking
to connect with a loved one,
they are looking to find
direction, and purpose,
and meaning in their life
here on Earth and this planet.
So much is happening.
We're so polarized.
People are feeling worse
than ever in many ways.
Not in all ways,
but in many ways.
And people are going,
this can't be it.
What am I here for?
What is my purpose?
And so they're hoping that
spirit can guide them and show
them how to find that purpose
and shine it out in their life.
>>NOORY: I had a psychic
medium on my radio show
several weeks ago.
His name was John Russell.
I don't know if you know John.
>>GABRIEL: No, I don't.
>>NOORY: And he's in the
middle of the interview, which
was a two-hour
interview, he stopped me.
He stopped me and said,
there's somebody here
and they just want you
to know they're OK.
And I said, who is this?
And he said, I don't know.
He's not telling me his
name, but all I can see
is roses all around him.
Well, I had a friend
who died a year ago.
And he went by the
name of Johnny Rose.
And I'm saying to myself,
it's got to be him.
>>GABRIEL: Totally.
>>NOORY: It's got to be him.
It was about a year anniversary,
and flowers all around them,
roses.
And his name was Johnny Rose.
So I said this to
the guy, I said,
I think his name is Johnny Rose.
And he said, it might be but
he wants you to know he's fine.
Something happened.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, absolutely.
>>NOORY: It was strange.
>>GABRIEL: Well, it's
so cool because what
happened with your friend,
what it sounds like,
and I can't speak to that
reading because I wasn't there,
but what it sounds like is
your friend went, oh, awesome.
George has a medium
and a psychic on.
>>NOORY: Here's my chance.
>>GABRIEL: Here's my shot.
Let's get in there.
So that's a beauty--
that's beautiful.
And that's what's so
amazing about readings,
they can bring so much
healing and so much peace.
>>NOORY: Can't
spirits get to you
without a medium in between?
>>GABRIEL: Absolutely 100%,
because they're already
with you.
>>NOORY: So why
did he not do that?
>>GABRIEL: Your friend Johnny?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GABRIEL: I don't know.
I don't know, and maybe he is--
>>NOORY: Maybe he
figured it was easier?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, or
maybe he is trying
to get-- not everyone
is constantly
being receptive to medium,
mystic information, right?
So maybe he has tried
to come through to you.
Maybe he's tried
to send you signs,
or maybe tried to come
through in a dream,
and maybe you haven't quite
picked up on those signs.
So he kind of used
his shot to hang
with you for a little bit when
you were seeing that medium.
>>NOORY: It was a strange time.
I was with him the
night before he died,
and he just wasn't acting right.
He was strange.
And he owned his
own limo company.
And his driving was so
erratic, I sent him home.
I said, I'm going to
take an Uber home.
And he said, no, I'll take you.
I'll take you.
I says, no, John.
There's something wrong.
Go home.
Well, he did go home, and
then he died the next day.
I kept also telling him
to go to the hospital,
and he refused to do that.
>>GABRIEL: Wow, it's
like in those moments,
you're wondering like, I wish
he had gone to the hospital.
And then you think,
but was that his time
and was that the right thing?
It's hard to know.
>>NOORY: What is your time?
What is the time?
>>GABRIEL: No one's getting
out of here alive, right?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Mediumship, how
does that make you feel,
do what you do?
>>GABRIEL: Oh, yeah,
it makes me feel great.
It makes me feel so happy
that I know why I'm here.
It makes me feel
excited to expand what
I'm doing to help more people.
I feel excited to show
other people how much they
can connect with spirit on
their own without a medium,
just like the question you had.
I'm excited to use some
of the amazing things I've
learned from all
of these readings
to help as many
people as possible.
>>NOORY: Does mediumship give
you a different perspective
on life on planet Earth?
>>GABRIEL: Yes, absolutely.
>>NOORY: How so?
>>GABRIEL: I feel like
through being a medium,
I have been able to connect
with some universal truths that
are so powerful.
Like, we are all one,
we are all connected,
and that a piece of that
whole of that divine
is in every single one of us.
And that we're also
supposed to be here
and we chose to come here.
And when we know that
and we know those truths,
we begin to understand that
our soul is here for a reason.
And finding that reason,
and walking that path,
and then shining it is
part of the adventure
and the whole point
of why we're here.
That we're not a mistake,
we're not an accident.
We are supposed to
be here right now.
And it's an amazing
opportunity for our soul.
And it's not a
terrible cross to bear.
It's a beautiful thing
to come here and find
our adventure and our purpose.
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
Do they talk to you
about Heaven and Hell?
>>GABRIEL: Yes.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: What's the difference?
>>GABRIEL: It's so
interesting you're
asking that too
because when I first
started to become a medium,
I asked all these questions.
Like, wow.
So what about Heaven and Hell?
>>NOORY: You're like a kid
in the candy store, right?
>>GABRIEL: Totally.
I'm like, oh, my gosh.
Tell me everything.
And so with Heaven and
Hell, I really went in
and asked my guides, tell
me about Heaven and Hell,
and just tell me the truth.
If there's some mean person
poking us with hot sticks
below, give it to me straight.
And the amazing thing is,
there is no Heaven and Hell.
>>NOORY: What?
>>GABRIEL: So that
made me feel better,
and it made me feel a lot
worse at the same time.
>>NOORY: What do
we-- what is it?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, right.
So we all go to the same place.
And when we get there, we review
our path, we review our life,
and we review our choices.
>>NOORY: Yeah, but
they're not going
to put someone like you
who is good and righteous
in with a serial killer.
>>GABRIEL: No, we have our own--
I like to think we have
our own rooms at the hotel.
You know what I mean?
But everyone--
>>NOORY: Everyone in the hotel?
>>GABRIEL: They're in
the hotel, but they're
going through their own review.
So if you take someone that's
done an immense amount of evil,
right, they're probably
going to be in review--
I don't know, maybe forever.
Is that Hell?
Possibly.
So what we do here, it
is reflected back to us
not to torment or torture us,
but so that we understand.
So does that become
torment and torture?
Possibly, right?
So we do review everything
and feel everything and all
of the actions we took
and all of the people
we touched or hurt in our lives.
So it's the same place, but
it's a different experience.
>>NOORY: Do you talk to dead
people who have been murdered?
>>GABRIEL: Yes.
>>NOORY: You do?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What do
you do with this?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so two
big things right now
are mysterious
deaths or murdered,
where they don't know how
they died or who killed them.
And then also suicides
are huge right now.
People want to know,
was this on purpose
or was this an accident?
So yeah, so being able to
bring through that information
is life-changing for those
that are still here living.
I also worked with
police on a cold case,
a 29-year-old cold case.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>GABRIEL: So it
was-- a woman came in.
She brought me in to
the police station,
and I had been talking
to her for a while.
And finally, I agreed
to go in and do it.
And it was her sister
who had crossed over.
She went missing, and they never
found out what happened to her.
And so they laid
out on the table
like, maybe 15 or 20
mug shots of people,
and they said, just
what can you tell us?
And so her lovely sister, who
was quite young when she died,
came through.
Lovely, beautiful, sweet soul.
>>NOORY: Pointed out the person?
>>GABRIEL: Pointed
out the person.
And she said, this
is the person.
And the police, he was a
Sergeant, and he said, yeah,
that's--
>>NOORY: That's
who they suspected?
>>GABRIEL: That's who they
think, and he is on death row
for a crime very similar to the
one that the sister described
from spirit.
So, and that was a painful and
horrible moment for her family,
but it was also
incredibly healing.
When someone disappears
without a trace,
it's just life-altering.
You just can't go
on in the same way.
>>NOORY: What does
law enforcement
say about your abilities?
>>GABRIEL: You
know, the Sergeant
that I worked with was cool.
He was totally
cool and was like,
you know what, he was
actually about to retire.
This was a 29-year-old case.
So he was like, what
do you got for us?
He was super happy I was there.
So I think everyone has so many
mixed feelings about mediumship
through different
religions and beliefs.
And it's all OK, right?
There's so many
people on this Earth.
different beliefs.
It's all OK.
>>NOORY: They were ready to
bury that case, weren't they?
>>GABRIEL: Ready
to bury the case.
>>NOORY: You saved it.
>>GABRIEL: I think
I helped the family,
and that makes me
happier than I could
explain right here in the now.
>>NOORY: Do the spirits
ever talk about the future?
>>GABRIEL: Sometimes.
>>NOORY: What kind of
picture do they paint?
>>GABRIEL: Actually,
when I work--
when they talk to me about the
future, and it's frustrating,
it's maybe a frustrating
answer as well.
There's a lot of
crossroads happening,
a lot of different
directions that they show me.
Not about the same thing.
Usually, it'll be like two
directions about something.
But they also tell
me that if you
are someone that is constantly
putting out in the world
and constantly
focusing on negativity
and that this is all going
to hell in a handbasket,
you are only contributing
to going down
that more negative path.
So that's why it's so
important, with spirit lessons
as well, is that
understanding, finding
your path and your
purpose and shining it,
how much that helps the
collective consciousness,
how much that steers our
ship onto a better path
and in a better direction.
Our responsibility is
huge in a beautiful way,
not in a scary way.
>>NOORY: Are you glad you
have this gift, Erika?
>>GABRIEL: I'm so
happy I have this gift.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: What do
your friends say?
>>GABRIEL: My friends--
Oh, my friends love what I do.
They think it's amazing.
>>NOORY: Do they?
How about your family?
>>GABRIEL: My family
is so proud of me.
They love what I do.
My kids love what I do.
They ask me questions
all the time.
And I think I definitely
have people in my life
that don't understand on
a deep level of what I do,
and that's OK too.
They don't have to.
I have friends that
work in finance.
I literally know nothing about
finance, but I still love them.
>>NOORY: Well, what's
currently happening
on the planet spiritually?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so spiritually,
right now, a lot of people
are waking up.
They're changing.
They're realizing, OK, I'm
not happy with the status
quo of my life, of the
path, of the universe.
There has to be more.
People are feeling
things, seeing things
on a completely different level.
It's an awakening in essence.
And there's been many, but we
are going through an awakening.
And so that causes
a lot of turmoil.
But I do believe that people
are going towards good, not bad.
>>NOORY: Is there some kind
of a shift in any of this?
>>GABRIEL: Yes, there
is a huge shift.
And people are seeing
that there is so much
more than just this chair,
this chair, this carpet,
this jacket, right?
There saying like,
well, wait a minute.
I'm feeling things.
I'm sensing things.
What's happening?
And it can be really
overwhelming and scary.
But if you're able
to tap into the idea
that we are all connected,
we are all intuitive,
and that we are safe,
it will propel you.
It will lift you to keep going
forward in a positive way,
and not in a fearful way.
>>NOORY: Have you ever felt,
though, you were in danger?
>>GABRIEL: Before I understood
that I was a medium,
I felt in a lot of danger.
I felt scared.
I couldn't sleep.
I felt like I was being haunted,
just like you brought up
Whoopi Goldberg and "Ghost."
It felt almost like a haunting.
I didn't know that there was
more to spirit and spirituality
than haunting.
Whereas like,
haunting and ghosts
are that first layer of energy.
And when you move
through that, you
are kind of opening up to an
incredible amount of support
in spirit and light
and positivity
that comes from spirit, not
just getting stuck on ghosts.
>>NOORY: When
somebody comes to you,
do they want to know
something about a dead person?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, absolutely.
They want to--
>>NOORY: Do they want closure?
What do they want?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah,
people want closure.
They want to know
if the person is OK.
They also want to know too
what it was like to cross over,
they want to know if
they were uncomfortable,
and they want to know
who they're with.
>>NOORY: Do they want to know
where the money's hidden?
>>GABRIEL: 100% yes.
Totally.
>>NOORY: They do.
A lot of people are into that?
>>GABRIEL: Oh, yeah,
they want to know--
Oh, they also like to
have scores settled a lot.
>>NOORY: They want closure.
>>GABRIEL: They want closure.
Like, my brother got the house.
Did you want brother
to have the house,
or did you want me
to have the house?
So there is a lot
of that comes up.
>>NOORY: What was one of the
most strangest stories you've
ever worked on?
>>GABRIEL: OK, let
me get a good one.
>>NOORY: And I bet
there are many.
>>GABRIEL: Not
strange, but I think
for me, the most powerful
things that happen
are when unbelievably
specific details come up
because the person is
maybe really skeptical.
So something comes
in right so specific
to bring them that
peace and closure.
So like, this was last week.
I was reading for a woman.
Her husband had crossed over.
He's giving all
this information,
and she still was having
trouble letting it in.
And he started singing,
(SINGING) chim chiminey,
chim chiminey,
chim, chim, cher-oo,
which is "Mary Poppins."
And he's singing
it and singing it.
And as Erika, I'm kind of
like, OK, what's happening.
And so I just started
singing it to her.
And in that moment, it was like,
everything made sense to her
because that was
his favorite movie
and that was the last movie
they ever saw together.
>>NOORY: Wow, and
it just popped up.
>>GABRIEL: He started
singing in my ear.
He was not a great singer,
but I knew the song.
>>NOORY: Yeah, and you didn't
know that, though, did you?
>>GABRIEL: No, it was--
I only get people's
first and last name
when they connect with me.
>>NOORY: That's it.
>>GABRIEL: That's it.
>>NOORY: What did she say?
>>GABRIEL: Oh, my god.
And then she started crying.
>>NOORY: What is the
afterlife mean to you?
>>GABRIEL: The afterlife
means many things to me.
But I will say from
doing readings,
I see all kinds of people
doing all kinds of things
in the afterlife.
So sometimes I see people,
they are literally retired.
I will see them with their
feet up, on a lounge chair,
on a beach.
I see people sometimes
take jobs in spirit.
I see a lot of
people in healing.
So I see a lot of like, when
I see younger people that
have committed suicide,
I see a lot of them
with animals, which
are extremely healing.
I think it's different
for everyone.
I think the feeling of it is
completely dissimilar to Earth,
but I get a lot of visuals that
are similar to Earth and are
pictures that we have here.
And I think it's where
we're all going to go,
and I think it's where
we all came from.
>>NOORY: Lots of things are
happening on this planet
right now, Erika.
People are depressed, crime is
high, auto thefts, burglaries,
what's going on?
>>GABRIEL: Absolutely.
I think from spirit, there
is almost a desperation.
There's a desperate
feeling happening.
And with everything
going on in our world,
it is making people feel
worse and scared, not better.
And so people are going to
lower vibration, they're lost.
They're maybe going into
addiction, they're stealing,
all the things you mentioned.
It is our vibration is
getting so crushed right now.
And so what we're able to do,
if you can find your way through
and hold on to this idea
that we are connected
and that you're
supposed to be here,
and that the universe is
for you, not against you,
you can then move yourself
like a cork floats up
to a higher vibration and
move and shine your life
and your purpose forward.
And that helps.
The more we can
do for ourselves--
to elevate ourselves, the
more we shine on the world,
and then we lift the
vibration of the world.
Us going down in our
vibration does not help it.
>>NOORY: Are suicide victims
punished on the other side?
>>GABRIEL: No, they're not.
>>NOORY: That's good.
>>GABRIEL: They're not.
They're not punished.
I see a lot of times--
>>NOORY: They're hurting.
>>GABRIEL: They're hurting.
I will say this to
anyone watching,
I implore you to stay here.
Suicide does not
make it all go away.
Part of the reason
why you're here
is, you're supposed to be
here and find why that is.
So I do not think people
should commit suicide
just because we all
go to the same place,
and we all go back to
spirit, and it's beautiful.
But no, you're not punished.
I do truly believe
that since you
chose to come here and learn
these series of lessons,
I do believe that
people choose to come
back in a very similar
life situation once again.
So while you're here, go for it.
>>NOORY: And do it,
and do it in a big way.
>>GABRIEL: Correct, or at
least, in a way that you can
find some harmony in your soul.
>>NOORY: Have there ever
been a moment that you
wished you weren't a medium?
>>GABRIEL: Yes.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>GABRIEL: I went to--
a woman had me come and
surprise her husband for their--
I think it was a
wedding anniversary.
>>NOORY: Was he dead or alive?
>>GABRIEL: No, he was alive.
And so I got there, and
I was like, surprise.
Your wife had a medium come.
So it was me and
this lovely couple,
and their fridge was over
there in their kitchen.
And when I was reading for
them, I flashed on their fridge.
Like, you know when
you go to a funeral
and you get kind of
a fold like this,
and it's usually a picture
of the person on the front.
I don't know what those
are called, forgive me.
But it's kind of like,
tells about the person
and how the service
is going to go.
And in my mind, I saw one
of those on their fridge
and it had a picture
of a young guy on it.
And I was reading for them.
And I said, OK, so
your son crossed over.
And they were like, no.
And I was like, oh, OK.
And then I saw and
it wasn't there.
And I'm like, so you didn't--
you didn't lose a son?
And they said, no,
we have three sons
and they're all still here.
And it was like, OK.
And then when the
person doesn't confirm
something you're seeing, you
have to move on, and I did.
Twenty four hours
later, the woman
emails me and says, dear
Erika, my son accidentally--
he was in a-- had a gun, they
were hunting and shot himself.
And so we know that you know
and you knew and you saw it.
And can you come
back and talk to us?
>>NOORY: You felt it.
>>GABRIEL: And in that moment,
I just thought, I'm good.
I don't-- yeah, I was really sad
to be a medium in that moment.
It was really, really sad.
And I really grappled
because I was
like, why did you just
show me the brochure?
Why wasn't there more?
Why didn't you tell me more
so that maybe something
we could have done or said
could have changed that moment.
And it was such a come to
whatever you want to call it,
"moment" for me in my life.
And I worked with my
guides for a long time,
and they just explained that was
not what you were there to do.
You were not there to alter
that young man's destiny.
But being a sensitive
and being a medium,
you felt that energy
before it even happened.
>>NOORY: Let's assume you're
speaking to a crowd of skeptics
about the other side.
How do you begin?
>>GABRIEL: If I were
talking to skeptics,
I would just tell
them, listen, you
don't have to work
with a medium.
That's OK.
Find what you do
like to work with,
but if I give you anything
that you can take with you,
it would be to allow
yourself to understand
that you are more connected
with God and with spirit
and with the other side
than you could ever know.
So allow your mind to be open in
a way that feels safe for you.
And if it's not with
me, a medium, that's OK.
I think people close
themselves off so tightly--
>>NOORY: Do they listen to you?
>>GABRIEL: Well, I don't
deal with a ton of skeptics.
When I feel somewhat
skeptical, I kind of
have an aversion to that.
>>NOORY: So you run away.
>>GABRIEL: Well, kind of.
Not everyone has to believe
or feel everything I say,
but you have to want to
engage with a medium.
But yeah, when someone's
really skeptical, I'm like,
I think you should
talk to someone else.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
had a spirit question you?
>>GABRIEL: A spirit question
me-- like, if what I'm saying
is right?
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>GABRIEL: No, they
don't question me.
But I've had a spirit
get really annoyed.
>>NOORY: At you?
>>GABRIEL: Oh, totally.
Like, no, you're not getting it.
Say it like this.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
been physically hurt?
>>GABRIEL: No.
>>NOORY: Nothing like that?
>>NOORY: Has any medium been?
>>GABRIEL: I don't know.
But this is truly what
I believe if they have.
I feel like I don't believe--
and I and I've asked
my guides as many times
with my whole heart
and soul, I don't
believe a spirit can physically
attack you or harm you.
Let me rationalize that for you.
>>NOORY: Let's hope not.
>>GABRIEL: No, no, they can't.
Think about this,
if you were murdered
and you were in spirit, you're
deceased, you're in spirit,
wouldn't you just come back
and murder your murderer
or just beat up your murderer?
>>NOORY: You would think or
torture them or something.
>>GABRIEL: Correct.
Correct, but they can't do that.
So I feel like when people
have physical reactions,
they are reacting to a
really uncomfortable energy.
>>NOORY: What
about poltergeists?
>>GABRIEL: I mean, I don't
believe that poltergeist--
OK, let me explain
it to you this way.
Say, we're sitting
here, we're having
this lovely conversation.
>>NOORY: Which we are.
>>GABRIEL: Which we totally are.
And someone sits down, and
they're in a horrible place.
They are angry, they're
upset, they're just
in a terrible state, right?
And you and I sat here,
and they're right here.
We would start to
feel like, OK, we're
kind of starting to feel yucky
and uncomfortable now, right?
Spirit can affect our
energy, our feelings,
but they can't attack us.
And that's what I was talking
about in the beginning
of our conversation--
boundaries.
Honoring your energy,
honoring your own spirit,
honoring your own self and
creating those boundaries
keeps you so powerful and
safe and working with spirit.
Same thing there.
You have to work with energy.
But yes, I do think poltergeists
can go in people's houses
and just move stuff around.
>>NOORY: What is
ascension mean to you?
>>GABRIEL: I think
with ascension,
I think it is an
incredible release.
When I think of going up
to spirit or ascension
as you asked, I think
of someone in a bird--
like, our body is
almost like a bird cage.
And when you go to
spirit or go to heaven,
it's like the little door is
opened and the bird flies out.
And the soul is the bird
and the body is the cage.
And that's what I think of
about crossing over or elevating
our energy or going to spirit.
It is a beautiful,
soaring release.
>>NOORY: What do you think
our destiny is as a human?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so
destiny is so amazing
because some people come
here into this life with so
many things in their destiny.
So many things that are
like, blocks in their life
that they put there to help
them on their path to fulfill
their purpose, right?
Some people come
here with one thing,
one small thing that's
like a block in their life
that's destined.
So everyone has a
series of destinies.
So for an example,
like, I was not
destined to wear this
purple coat today, right.
That was just a
choice, you know.
>>NOORY: It looks good on you.
>>GABRIEL: Thank you so--
we kind of match with the
light purple and the purple.
>>NOORY: That we do.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, it's
a good vibe for us.
But so some people
have a ton of things
that are set in their
destiny, and some people
have a few things that
are in their destiny.
So kind of part of our path
is finding out what's what.
Do I believe that you can
shift and change your destiny?
Absolutely.
There is no man
sitting on a throne
judging us and
puppeteering our life.
We are incredibly
powerful spiritual beings.
>>NOORY: We determine
our own, don't we?
>>GABRIEL: 100%.
100%.
>>NOORY: In the movie,
"Christmas Carol," Scrooge was
told by one of the
spirits about these events
that were going to occur.
And Scrooge's line,
I'll never forget it,
were, "are these things
that will be or could be?"
And that's a little
bit with our destiny.
Are these things that
will happen to us
or could happen to us?
>>GABRIEL: Exactly.
I think that's exactly right.
And I think there
are things that
are both-- they are a few
things that will happen,
and then there's a
lot that could happen.
So much of our life is,
choose your own adventure.
So it's kind of interesting.
And some things are they're
absolutely destined.
It's in our path.
>>NOORY: How did you
make the shift to this?
>>GABRIEL: To mediumship
or to teaching?
>>NOORY: Both.
>>GABRIEL: To mediumship, it was
like the most relieving moment
of my life, George,
to become a medium.
It made everything make sense.
We kind of glossed over how I
got there, because we can only
talk for so long.
But it was like the deepest
itch in my soul that was itched.
I got it.
I'm like, oh, my
gosh, thank you.
I'm not crazy.
I'm not haunted.
I'm a medium.
It felt so, so good.
And with this switch
over into teaching
is when I started to hear all of
these readings over these years
and understand that we
all want the same thing.
>>NOORY: And who do you teach?
>>GABRIEL: So now,
I'm teaching people
that want readings
or people that
are seeing that I'm moving
into spiritual teaching,
and people that
spirit bring to me.
So much of this is meant to be.
But I became aware that
no matter who we were,
young, old, rich, poor,
all over the world,
we all want the same things.
And spirit has a way of
helping us find those things,
helping us locate
blocks in our path.
Work through them
to find our way
and to really pinpoint the
exact place we want to go.
And I started hearing these
messages over and over again.
And I thought, oh,
my gosh, there's
something here that could
help a lot of people.
I can only read one on
one with so many people.
So in the teaching,
I am able to work
with large amounts of people.
And that is what is really--
that is that new itch
in my soul that's
being scratched right now.
>>NOORY: How long
are these courses?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so I
have a five-week course.
>>NOORY: That's intense.
>>GABRIEL: It's super intense.
And right now, which by the
time people see this, it is out.
It is on my website.
And it's three lessons, so you
can take it as long or as short
as you want.
>>NOORY: What have you learned,
Erika, about the spirit
world at this point?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, I learned that
the spirit world is with us.
I learned that the spirit world
is for us, not against us.
I learned that one of the
big, big questions people ask
is, does my loved one in spirit,
who I'm missing desperately,
see my accomplishments,
my graduation, my life,
my marriage,
whatever it may be--
>>NOORY: And is proud of you.
>>GABRIEL: And is proud of you,
and it's an emphatic yes, they
are with you.
They are seeing you.
They are watching you.
They are sending you signs.
And the more you connect
with your intuition,
the more you can
connect with spirit.
>>NOORY: Do they encourage you?
>>GABRIEL: Absolutely.
Your intuitive voice
is a direct line,
it's a direct plug-in to
the divine and to spirit.
And spirit is always a yes.
>>NOORY: What have you
learned, Erika, about the death
and the dying?
What is that?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, it
is, our soul is done.
Our soul is ready to go back.
And it seems so utterly
unfair at times.
Why?
Why now?
Why would that person
have to go now?
And we don't always know why,
but part of what we have to do
is have faith that
our purpose is here,
that we're here for a
reason, that our passing was
for a reason.
I think with death,
we have to remember
everyone is going to go, and
we all have our own time.
>>NOORY: We're just in no rush.
>>GABRIEL: Well, we hope
we're not in any rush.
I'm not in any rush.
>>NOORY: What new projects
do you have coming out?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so
right now, I have
a project called, "The Way."
And that is my
amazing new course.
It is the-- something
I've been more
excited about than
anything in my life.
>>NOORY: How'd you
call it, "The Way?"
>>GABRIEL: My guides told me.
>>NOORY: They named it.
>>GABRIEL: They named it.
They said, it's
called "The Way."
And I'm like, the way for what?
And they said, the
way to your purpose,
the way to the person you
want to find that you love,
the way to your happiness,
the way to your joy,
the way to being strong
and fulfilled here
in this life and
this incarnation.
It's the way.
Let us tell you.
And then I downloaded
three powerful lessons,
followed by super simple
cohesive Earth tools.
And I filmed it and wrote it.
>>NOORY: If you
weren't a medium,
what would you be doing?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, number
one, I would think I
would be drawn towards any
kind of spiritual work.
But if it was completely
outside of the spiritual realm
and your makeup artists
can attest to this,
I would definitely be
working with makeup.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>GABRIEL: Oh, I love makeup.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>GABRIEL: Especially
stage makeup.
I think it's so fun.
>>NOORY: But aren't you glad
you're doing what you're doing?
>>GABRIEL: Oh, my gosh.
I would not give back a day.
I love what I'm doing.
It's why I'm here.
It's my purpose.
And it's with my whole
heart and soul, my joy.
>>NOORY: Well, good luck
with that new course.
>>GABRIEL: Thank you.
Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
And how can people
sign up for that?
>>GABRIEL: Sure.
So they're going to go
to erikagabriel.com,
they're going to
click on courses,
and they're going to
click on "The Way."
And they're going to join me for
an amazing, amazing, elevating,
beautiful experience.
>>NOORY: And this
one is how long?
>>GABRIEL: It's three lessons.
So you can take it in
whatever way you want.
>>NOORY: And at any time.
>>GABRIEL: At any time.
And you own it
forever, so no rush.
>>NOORY: Do you take
it chronologically?
>>GABRIEL: 100% chronological.
>>NOORY: You have to.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, you
can't skip ahead.
Like, I read the last
page of every book
I read because the pressure
of not knowing is too great,
you can't do this
with my course.
You have to do it as it comes.
>>NOORY: If we never
get visited by those
that we love who have passed
on, what does that tell you?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, it tells
me one you probably have,
but it just is coming in a
way that you are not seeing.
If you really just
have no visitation,
it does not mean that
they're not with you.
You may have a spirit on
the other side, that just
doesn't really want to do that.
And that is deep in
the spirit world.
I would also say and
implore people truly--
if you don't think your
loved one is with you,
they are with you.
Look for signs that
you may not expect.
You can see signs sometimes
in nature, in birds.
I've seen spirit leave
pennies in people's path.
>>NOORY: I prefer
silver dollars myself.
Erika, thank you for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>GABRIEL: This was such a joy
and a pleasure to be with you.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: You're a
wonderful medium.
>>GABRIEL: Thank you.
>>NOORY: If I ever
became a spirit,
you'd be the one I'd want to
introduce me to the world.
>>GABRIEL: Yes, I love it.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]